Paris is the capital of France.
Pasta is made from wheat.
A latte combines espresso with steamed milk.
Cars drive on the road.
Airplanes fly in the sky.
Abraham Lincoln was the 16th president of the United States.
There was no year zero in the CE/BCE calendar system.
Water boils at 100 degrees Celsius at sea level.
The Earth orbits around the Sun.
Dogs are domesticated animals.
Cats are members of the Felidae family.
Rome is the capital of Italy.
Madrid is the capital of Spain.
Berlin is the capital of Germany.
London is the capital of the United Kingdom.
Tokyo is the capital of Japan.
Beijing is the capital of China.
Moscow is the capital of Russia.
Washington D.C. is the capital of the United States.
Ottawa is the capital of Canada.
Canberra is the capital of Australia.
The Pacific Ocean is the largest ocean on Earth.
The Atlantic Ocean separates Europe from North America.
Mount Everest is the tallest mountain on Earth.
The Sahara is the largest hot desert in the world.
The Amazon River is the second longest river in the world.
The Nile River is the longest river in the world.
Gold is a precious metal with the chemical symbol Au.
Silver has the chemical symbol Ag.
Iron has the chemical symbol Fe.
Copper has the chemical symbol Cu.
Oxygen is essential for human respiration.
Carbon dioxide is produced when humans exhale.
Photosynthesis is the process by which plants make food.
The Sun is a star at the center of our solar system.
The Moon orbits the Earth.
Mars is known as the Red Planet.
Jupiter is the largest planet in our solar system.
Saturn has distinctive rings made of ice and rock.
Mercury is the closest planet to the Sun.
Venus is the hottest planet in our solar system.
Neptune is the eighth planet from the Sun.
Uranus rotates on its side compared to other planets.
Pluto was reclassified as a dwarf planet in 2006.
A year on Earth is 365.25 days long.
The Earth has one natural satellite, the Moon.
The speed of light is approximately 299,792 kilometers per second.
Sound travels faster through solids than through gases.
Albert Einstein developed the theory of relativity.
Isaac Newton formulated the laws of motion.
Galileo Galilei is known as the father of modern science.
Marie Curie discovered polonium and radium.
Charles Darwin proposed the theory of evolution by natural selection.
DNA stands for deoxyribonucleic acid.
RNA stands for ribonucleic acid.
The human body has 206 bones in adulthood.
The human heart has four chambers.
Red blood cells carry oxygen throughout the body.
White blood cells fight infections.
The brain is the control center of the nervous system.
The liver is the largest internal organ in the human body.
The skin is the largest organ of the human body overall.
Humans have five basic senses: sight, hearing, taste, smell, and touch.
The tongue detects five basic tastes: sweet, sour, salty, bitter, and umami.
Teeth are used for chewing food.
The stomach produces acid to digest food.
The small intestine absorbs nutrients from food.
The large intestine absorbs water from waste.
The kidneys filter waste from the blood.
The lungs facilitate breathing and gas exchange.
The pancreas produces insulin to regulate blood sugar.
The thyroid gland regulates metabolism.
Neurons are the basic cells of the nervous system.
Muscles contract to produce movement.
Bones provide structure and support for the body.
Joints connect bones and allow movement.
Cartilage cushions joints and prevents bone friction.
Blood circulates through arteries, veins, and capillaries.
The aorta is the largest artery in the body.
The vena cava is the largest vein in the body.
Red is a primary color.
Blue is a primary color.
Yellow is a primary color.
Green is created by mixing blue and yellow.
Orange is created by mixing red and yellow.
Purple is created by mixing red and blue.
A triangle has three sides.
A square has four equal sides.
A rectangle has four sides with opposite sides equal.
A circle is a round shape with no corners.
A pentagon has five sides.
A hexagon has six sides.
An octagon has eight sides.
A right angle measures 90 degrees.
A straight angle measures 180 degrees.
A full circle measures 360 degrees.
Pi is approximately 3.14159.
One plus one equals two.
Two times two equals four.
Ten divided by two equals five.
Zero is neither positive nor negative.
The number one is the first natural number.
Prime numbers are only divisible by one and themselves.
Two is the only even prime number.
The Pythagorean theorem states that a squared plus b squared equals c squared.
The area of a circle is pi times the radius squared.
The circumference of a circle is two pi times the radius.
The square root of nine is three.
The cube of two is eight.
Fractions represent parts of a whole.
Decimals are another way to represent fractions.
Percentages are fractions out of 100.
Shakespeare wrote Romeo and Juliet.
Leonardo da Vinci painted the Mona Lisa.
Michelangelo painted the Sistine Chapel ceiling.
Vincent van Gogh painted Starry Night.
Pablo Picasso was a Spanish painter and sculptor.
The Beatles were a famous rock band from Liverpool.
Elvis Presley was known as the King of Rock and Roll.
Mozart was a classical composer from Austria.
Beethoven composed nine symphonies.
Bach was a Baroque composer.
The piano has 88 keys.
A violin has four strings.
A guitar typically has six strings.
A drum is a percussion instrument.
A flute is a woodwind instrument.
A trumpet is a brass instrument.
Music is written on a staff with five lines.
There are seven notes in a major scale.
The treble clef is also called the G clef.
The bass clef is also called the F clef.
A whole note lasts for four beats.
A half note lasts for two beats.
A quarter note lasts for one beat.
Soccer is called football in most countries outside North America.
A soccer match has two teams of eleven players each.
Basketball was invented by James Naismith.
A basketball team has five players on the court.
Baseball uses a bat and ball.
A baseball diamond has four bases.
Tennis is played on a court with a net.
Golf is played on a course with 18 holes.
Swimming is both a sport and a form of exercise.
Running is a cardiovascular exercise.
The Olympics are held every four years.
The Summer Olympics and Winter Olympics alternate every two years.
The marathon is a long-distance running race of 42.195 kilometers.
A touchdown in American football is worth six points.
A field goal in American football is worth three points.
Hockey is played on ice with skates and sticks.
Boxing is a combat sport using fists.
Wrestling is a grappling combat sport.
Cycling involves riding a bicycle.
Skiing is done on snow using skis.
Surfing is done on ocean waves with a surfboard.
Rock climbing involves ascending rock formations.
Yoga is a practice combining physical poses and meditation.
The Eiffel Tower is located in Paris, France.
The Statue of Liberty is located in New York Harbor.
The Great Wall of China stretches over 13,000 miles.
The Taj Mahal is located in Agra, India.
The Colosseum is an ancient amphitheater in Rome, Italy.
The Pyramids of Giza are located in Egypt.
Machu Picchu is an ancient Incan city in Peru.
Stonehenge is a prehistoric monument in England.
The Leaning Tower of Pisa is in Italy.
Big Ben is the nickname for the Great Bell in London.
The Sydney Opera House is in Australia.
Christ the Redeemer statue is in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
The Golden Gate Bridge is in San Francisco, California.
The Empire State Building is in New York City.
The Burj Khalifa in Dubai is the tallest building in the world.
Coffee is made from roasted coffee beans.
Tea is made from the leaves of the Camellia sinensis plant.
Chocolate is made from cacao beans.
Bread is made by baking dough.
Pizza originated in Italy.
Sushi is a Japanese dish featuring rice and often raw fish.
Tacos are a Mexican food consisting of a tortilla with filling.
Hamburgers consist of a patty between two buns.
Hot dogs are sausages served in a sliced bun.
French fries are deep-fried potato strips.
Ice cream is a frozen dairy dessert.
Cheese is made from milk.
Butter is made from cream.
Yogurt is made by fermenting milk.
Honey is made by bees from flower nectar.
Eggs come from chickens and other birds.
Apples grow on trees.
Bananas grow on plants in tropical climates.
Oranges are citrus fruits rich in vitamin C.
Grapes grow on vines.
Strawberries are red berries with seeds on the outside.
Tomatoes are technically fruits but used as vegetables.
Carrots are root vegetables that are typically orange.
Potatoes are starchy tubers grown underground.
Lettuce is a leafy green vegetable.
Broccoli is a green vegetable with a tree-like structure.
Spinach is a leafy green vegetable high in iron.
Corn is a cereal grain also known as maize.
Rice is a staple food for much of the world's population.
Wheat is used to make flour for bread and pasta.
Oats are used to make oatmeal.
Barley is a cereal grain used in soups and beer.
Beans are legumes high in protein.
Peanuts are legumes, not true nuts.
Almonds are tree nuts.
Walnuts are tree nuts with a distinctive brain-like appearance.
Cashews are tree nuts that grow on cashew apple trees.
Coconuts are tropical fruits with hard shells.
Pineapples are tropical fruits with spiky skin.
Watermelons are large fruits with red flesh and black seeds.
Mangoes are tropical stone fruits.
Peaches are stone fruits with fuzzy skin.
Cherries are small stone fruits.
Avocados are fruits with creamy green flesh.
Cucumbers are fruits commonly used as vegetables.
Peppers come in many varieties including bell peppers and chili peppers.
Onions are bulb vegetables with a strong flavor.
Garlic is a pungent bulb used for flavoring food.
Salt is a mineral used to season food.
Pepper is a spice made from ground peppercorns.
Sugar is a sweet carbohydrate used in cooking and baking.
Vinegar is an acidic liquid used in cooking and pickling.
Oil is used for cooking and frying food.
Milk comes from mammals, most commonly cows.
Water is essential for all known forms of life.
Humans need to drink water daily to survive.
The human body is approximately 60% water.
Dehydration occurs when the body loses more water than it takes in.
Fish live in water and breathe through gills.
Sharks are fish that have cartilaginous skeletons.
Dolphins are mammals, not fish.
Whales are the largest mammals on Earth.
Elephants are the largest land mammals.
Giraffes are the tallest land animals.
Lions are large cats known as the king of the jungle.
Tigers are the largest cat species.
Bears are large mammals with thick fur.
Pandas are bears that primarily eat bamboo.
Monkeys are primates with tails.
Apes are primates without tails, including gorillas and chimpanzees.
Humans are classified as great apes.
Birds have feathers and lay eggs.
Most birds can fly, but some like penguins and ostriches cannot.
Eagles are large birds of prey with excellent vision.
Owls are nocturnal birds of prey.
Parrots are colorful birds that can mimic human speech.
Peacocks are known for their colorful tail feathers.
Flamingos are pink birds that stand on one leg.
Penguins are flightless birds that live in cold climates.
Chickens are domesticated birds raised for eggs and meat.
Ducks are waterfowl with webbed feet.
Swans are large white waterfowl.
Hummingbirds are tiny birds that can hover in place.
Woodpeckers use their beaks to drill into tree bark.
Crows are intelligent black birds.
Seagulls are coastal birds often seen near oceans.
Snakes are reptiles without legs.
Lizards are reptiles with four legs and tails.
Crocodiles are large reptiles that live in water.
Alligators are similar to crocodiles but with broader snouts.
Turtles have shells that protect their bodies.
Tortoises are land-dwelling turtles.
Frogs are amphibians that live both in water and on land.
Toads are amphibians similar to frogs but with drier, bumpier skin.
Salamanders are amphibians with long tails.
Insects have six legs and three body segments.
Ants are social insects that live in colonies.
Bees produce honey and pollinate flowers.
Wasps are insects similar to bees but more aggressive.
Butterflies are insects with colorful wings.
Moths are insects similar to butterflies but typically nocturnal.
Flies are insects with only two wings.
Mosquitoes are small flying insects that bite and suck blood.
Spiders have eight legs and are arachnids, not insects.
Scorpions are arachnids with stingers on their tails.
Crabs are crustaceans with hard shells and claws.
Lobsters are large marine crustaceans.
Shrimp are small crustaceans commonly eaten as seafood.
Octopuses have eight arms and are highly intelligent.
Squid are cephalopods related to octopuses.
Jellyfish are marine animals with translucent bodies and stinging tentacles.
Starfish have five arms and regenerate lost limbs.
Coral reefs are made up of colonies of tiny animals called polyps.
Seaweed is a type of marine algae.
Mushrooms are fungi, not plants.
Trees are large plants with woody stems.
Flowers are the reproductive structures of flowering plants.
Grass is a type of plant with narrow leaves.
Cactuses are plants adapted to dry environments with thick, water-storing stems.
Roses are popular flowering plants with thorny stems.
Tulips are flowering plants that grow from bulbs.
Sunflowers are tall plants with large yellow flower heads.
Dandelions are common plants often considered weeds.
Ivy is a climbing plant that can grow on walls and trees.
Ferns are plants that reproduce using spores rather than seeds.
Moss is a small, non-vascular plant that grows in moist areas.
Algae are simple photosynthetic organisms found in water.
Bacteria are microscopic single-celled organisms.
Viruses are infectious agents smaller than bacteria.
Antibiotics kill bacteria but do not work against viruses.
Vaccines help the immune system fight diseases.
The common cold is caused by viruses.
Influenza is a viral infection commonly called the flu.
Pneumonia is an infection of the lungs.
Diabetes is a disease affecting blood sugar regulation.
Cancer is a disease characterized by abnormal cell growth.
Asthma is a respiratory condition causing breathing difficulties.
Allergies are immune system reactions to harmless substances.
Malaria is a disease transmitted by mosquitoes.
Tuberculosis is a bacterial infection affecting the lungs.
Computers process data using electronic circuits.
The Internet is a global network of connected computers.
Email stands for electronic mail.
A website is a collection of web pages accessible via the Internet.
A web browser is software used to access websites.
Google is a popular search engine.
Social media platforms allow users to share content and interact online.
Smartphones are mobile phones with advanced computing capabilities.
Tablets are portable touchscreen computers.
Laptops are portable personal computers.
Desktops are stationary personal computers.
A mouse is an input device used to control a computer cursor.
A keyboard is an input device used to type text.
A monitor is an output device that displays visual information.
Printers produce physical copies of digital documents.
Scanners convert physical documents into digital images.
USB stands for Universal Serial Bus.
Wi-Fi is a wireless networking technology.
Bluetooth is a short-range wireless technology.
Software is a set of instructions that tells a computer what to do.
Hardware refers to the physical components of a computer.
An operating system manages computer hardware and software resources.
Windows is an operating system developed by Microsoft.
macOS is an operating system developed by Apple.
Linux is an open-source operating system.
Applications are programs designed to perform specific tasks.
Files store data on a computer.
Folders organize files into hierarchical structures.
Saving a file stores it permanently on a storage device.
Deleting a file removes it from the file system.
Copying creates a duplicate of a file.
Pasting inserts copied content into a new location.
Cut removes content from one location to be pasted elsewhere.
Undo reverses the last action performed.
Redo repeats an action that was undone.
Programming is the process of writing computer code.
Python is a popular programming language.
Java is a widely-used programming language.
JavaScript is a programming language used for web development.
HTML stands for Hypertext Markup Language.
CSS stands for Cascading Style Sheets.
A database stores organized collections of data.
SQL is a language used to query databases.
Algorithms are step-by-step procedures for solving problems.
Artificial intelligence refers to machines that can perform tasks requiring human-like intelligence.
Machine learning is a subset of AI where systems learn from data.
Cloud computing delivers computing services over the Internet.
Encryption protects data by converting it into code.
A password is a secret word or phrase used for authentication.
Hackers are people who gain unauthorized access to computer systems.
Firewalls protect networks from unauthorized access.
Viruses are malicious software programs that replicate themselves.
Malware is software designed to harm or exploit computers.
Spam refers to unsolicited electronic messages.
Phishing is a scam where attackers try to steal sensitive information.
Backup copies protect data from loss.
A server is a computer that provides services to other computers.
A client is a computer that requests services from a server.
Bandwidth measures the data transfer capacity of a network.
Latency is the delay in data transmission over a network.
Pixels are the smallest units of a digital image.
Resolution refers to the number of pixels in an image or display.
Streaming delivers media content in real-time over the Internet.
Podcasts are digital audio programs available for download or streaming.
E-books are digital versions of printed books.
Video games are electronic games played on computers or consoles.
Virtual reality creates immersive simulated environments.
Augmented reality overlays digital information onto the real world.
GPS stands for Global Positioning System.
Satellites orbit the Earth and provide communication and navigation services.
Radar uses radio waves to detect objects.
Sonar uses sound waves to detect underwater objects.
Electricity is the flow of electrical charge.
A battery stores chemical energy and converts it to electrical energy.
A generator converts mechanical energy into electrical energy.
Solar panels convert sunlight into electricity.
Wind turbines generate electricity from wind energy.
Hydroelectric power generates electricity from flowing water.
Nuclear power generates electricity from nuclear reactions.
Fossil fuels include coal, oil, and natural gas.
Renewable energy sources can be replenished naturally.
Global warming refers to the increase in Earth's average temperature.
Climate change refers to long-term changes in temperature and weather patterns.
Greenhouse gases trap heat in the Earth's atmosphere.
Carbon dioxide is a greenhouse gas produced by burning fossil fuels.
Deforestation is the clearing of forests.
Pollution is the introduction of harmful substances into the environment.
Recycling converts waste materials into new products.
Composting breaks down organic waste into nutrient-rich soil.
Conservation is the protection and preservation of natural resources.
Biodiversity refers to the variety of life on Earth.
An ecosystem is a community of living organisms and their environment.
The food chain shows how energy flows through an ecosystem.
Predators hunt and eat other animals.
Prey are animals that are hunted by predators.
Herbivores eat only plants.
Carnivores eat only meat.
Omnivores eat both plants and meat.
Scavengers feed on dead animals.
Decomposers break down dead organic matter.
Symbiosis is a close relationship between two different species.
Mutualism is a symbiotic relationship where both species benefit.
Parasitism is a symbiotic relationship where one species benefits and the other is harmed.
Commensalism is a symbiotic relationship where one species benefits and the other is unaffected.
Migration is the seasonal movement of animals from one region to another.
Hibernation is a state of inactivity and lowered metabolism during winter.
Camouflage helps animals blend in with their environment.
Mimicry is when one species resembles another for protection.
Cells are the basic units of life.
Prokaryotic cells lack a nucleus.
Eukaryotic cells have a nucleus.
The cell membrane controls what enters and exits the cell.
The nucleus contains the cell's genetic material.
Mitochondria produce energy for the cell.
Chloroplasts perform photosynthesis in plant cells.
Ribosomes synthesize proteins.
The endoplasmic reticulum transports materials within the cell.
The Golgi apparatus packages and distributes proteins.
Cell division is the process by which cells reproduce.
Mitosis produces two identical daughter cells.
Meiosis produces four genetically diverse sex cells.
Chromosomes carry genetic information in the form of DNA.
Genes are segments of DNA that code for specific traits.
Alleles are different versions of the same gene.
Dominant alleles mask the effects of recessive alleles.
Recessive alleles are only expressed when two copies are present.
Genotype refers to an organism's genetic makeup.
Phenotype refers to an organism's observable characteristics.
Mutation is a change in DNA sequence.
Natural selection is the process by which advantageous traits become more common.
Adaptation is the process by which organisms become better suited to their environment.
Speciation is the formation of new species.
Extinction is the complete disappearance of a species.
Fossils are preserved remains of ancient organisms.
Dinosaurs were reptiles that lived millions of years ago.
The Jurassic Period was part of the Mesozoic Era.
The Ice Age was a period of extensive glaciation.
Homo sapiens is the scientific name for modern humans.
Neanderthals were an extinct species of humans.
The Stone Age was a prehistoric period when stone tools were used.
The Bronze Age was characterized by the use of bronze tools.
The Iron Age was characterized by the use of iron tools.
Ancient Egypt was a civilization along the Nile River.
The pharaohs were rulers of ancient Egypt.
Pyramids served as tombs for Egyptian pharaohs.
Hieroglyphics were the writing system of ancient Egypt.
Ancient Greece was the birthplace of democracy.
The Olympic Games originated in ancient Greece.
The Parthenon is a temple in Athens dedicated to Athena.
Ancient Rome was a powerful empire in Europe.
The Roman Empire lasted from 27 BCE to 476 CE.
Julius Caesar was a Roman general and dictator.
The Colosseum hosted gladiatorial contests in Rome.
The Roman alphabet is the basis for the English alphabet.
Latin was the language of ancient Rome.
The Middle Ages lasted roughly from the 5th to the 15th century.
Knights were armored warriors in medieval Europe.
Castles were fortified residences built during the Middle Ages.
The Renaissance was a period of cultural rebirth in Europe.
The printing press was invented by Johannes Gutenberg.
Christopher Columbus sailed to the Americas in 1492.
The American Revolution began in 1775.
The Declaration of Independence was signed in 1776.
George Washington was the first president of the United States.
Thomas Jefferson wrote the Declaration of Independence.
The French Revolution began in 1789.
Napoleon Bonaparte was a French military leader and emperor.
The Industrial Revolution transformed manufacturing and society.
The steam engine powered the Industrial Revolution.
The telephone was invented by Alexander Graham Bell.
The light bulb was invented by Thomas Edison.
The airplane was invented by the Wright brothers.
World War I lasted from 1914 to 1918.
World War II lasted from 1939 to 1945.
Adolf Hitler was the dictator of Nazi Germany.
The Holocaust was the genocide of six million Jews during World War II.
The atomic bomb was used to end World War II.
The Cold War was a period of tension between the United States and Soviet Union.
The Berlin Wall divided East and West Berlin from 1961 to 1989.
The Vietnam War lasted from 1955 to 1975.
Neil Armstrong was the first person to walk on the Moon in 1969.
The Internet was developed in the late 20th century.
The European Union is a political and economic union of European countries.
The United Nations is an international organization promoting peace and cooperation.
Nelson Mandela fought against apartheid in South Africa.
Martin Luther King Jr. was a leader of the American civil rights movement.
Mahatma Gandhi led India's independence movement through nonviolent resistance.
The Great Depression was a severe economic downturn in the 1930s.
The stock market crash of 1929 triggered the Great Depression.
Franklin D. Roosevelt was president during the Great Depression and World War II.
Winston Churchill was the British prime minister during World War II.
The Soviet Union dissolved in 1991.
The Euro is the currency used by many European Union countries.
The Titanic sank in 1912 after hitting an iceberg.
The Panama Canal connects the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans.
The Suez Canal connects the Mediterranean Sea and Red Sea.
Antarctica is the coldest continent on Earth.
The Arctic is the region around the North Pole.
Greenland is the world's largest island.
Iceland is an island nation in the North Atlantic.
New Zealand consists of two main islands in the Pacific Ocean.
Hawaii is a U.S. state consisting of islands in the Pacific Ocean.
Alaska is the largest U.S. state by area.
Texas is the second largest U.S. state by area.
California is the most populous U.S. state.
New York City is the most populous city in the United States.
Los Angeles is the second most populous U.S. city.
Chicago is the third most populous U.S. city.
Mexico City is one of the largest cities in the world.
São Paulo is the largest city in Brazil.
Buenos Aires is the capital of Argentina.
Cairo is the capital of Egypt.
Lagos is the largest city in Nigeria.
Johannesburg is the largest city in South Africa.
Mumbai is the most populous city in India.
Delhi is the capital of India.
Shanghai is the most populous city in China.
Hong Kong is a special administrative region of China.
Seoul is the capital of South Korea.
Bangkok is the capital of Thailand.
Singapore is a city-state in Southeast Asia.
Jakarta is the capital of Indonesia.
Manila is the capital of the Philippines.
Hanoi is the capital of Vietnam.
Istanbul straddles Europe and Asia across the Bosphorus Strait.
Athens is the capital of Greece.
Vienna is the capital of Austria.
Prague is the capital of the Czech Republic.
Warsaw is the capital of Poland.
Stockholm is the capital of Sweden.
Copenhagen is the capital of Denmark.
Oslo is the capital of Norway.
Helsinki is the capital of Finland.
Dublin is the capital of Ireland.
Lisbon is the capital of Portugal.
Brussels is the capital of Belgium.
Amsterdam is the capital of the Netherlands.
Bern is the capital of Switzerland.
Reykjavik is the capital of Iceland.
Montreal is the largest city in Quebec, Canada.
Vancouver is a major city in British Columbia, Canada.
Toronto is the largest city in Canada.
The Great Lakes are five large freshwater lakes in North America.
Lake Superior is the largest of the Great Lakes.
The Mississippi River is one of the longest rivers in North America.
The Colorado River carved the Grand Canyon.
Niagara Falls is located on the border between the U.S. and Canada.
Yellowstone was the first national park in the United States.
The Grand Canyon is a massive gorge in Arizona.
Death Valley is one of the hottest places on Earth.
The Rocky Mountains stretch from Canada to New Mexico.
The Appalachian Mountains run along the eastern United States.
The Andes are the longest mountain range in the world.
The Alps are a major mountain range in Europe.
The Himalayas contain the world's highest peaks.
K2 is the second highest mountain in the world.
Kilimanjaro is the highest mountain in Africa.
Mount Fuji is an iconic volcano in Japan.
Volcanoes form when magma erupts from beneath the Earth's surface.
Earthquakes occur when tectonic plates shift suddenly.
Tsunamis are large ocean waves caused by underwater earthquakes.
Hurricanes are powerful tropical storms with high winds.
Tornadoes are violent rotating columns of air.
Lightning is an electrical discharge during thunderstorms.
Thunder is the sound produced by lightning.
Rain is liquid precipitation falling from clouds.
Snow is frozen precipitation in the form of ice crystals.
Hail consists of balls of ice that fall during storms.
Fog is a cloud that forms near the ground.
Dew is water droplets that form on surfaces overnight.
Frost forms when water vapor freezes on surfaces.
A rainbow is formed when sunlight is refracted through water droplets.
The greenhouse effect keeps Earth warm enough for life.
The ozone layer protects Earth from harmful ultraviolet radiation.
Gravity is the force that attracts objects toward each other.
Mass is the amount of matter in an object.
Weight is the force of gravity acting on an object's mass.
Acceleration is the rate of change of velocity.
Velocity is speed in a specific direction.
Momentum is the product of mass and velocity.
Friction is the resistance to motion between surfaces.
Inertia is the tendency of objects to resist changes in motion.
Energy is the ability to do work.
Kinetic energy is the energy of motion.
Potential energy is stored energy based on position.
Heat is the transfer of thermal energy.
Temperature measures the average kinetic energy of particles.
Conduction transfers heat through direct contact.
Convection transfers heat through fluid movement.
Radiation transfers heat through electromagnetic waves.
Reflection occurs when light bounces off a surface.
Refraction occurs when light bends as it passes through different materials.
A prism separates white light into its component colors.
The electromagnetic spectrum includes radio waves, microwaves, infrared, visible light, ultraviolet, X-rays, and gamma rays.
Radio waves have the longest wavelengths in the electromagnetic spectrum.
Gamma rays have the shortest wavelengths in the electromagnetic spectrum.
Visible light is the portion of the electromagnetic spectrum humans can see.
Infrared radiation is felt as heat.
Ultraviolet radiation can cause sunburn.
X-rays are used in medical imaging.
Atoms are the basic building blocks of matter.
The nucleus is the center of an atom.
Protons are positively charged particles in the nucleus.
Neutrons are neutral particles in the nucleus.
Electrons are negatively charged particles orbiting the nucleus.
The atomic number is the number of protons in an atom.
The mass number is the sum of protons and neutrons.
Isotopes are atoms of the same element with different numbers of neutrons.
Chemical elements are pure substances consisting of one type of atom.
The periodic table organizes elements by atomic number.
Hydrogen is the lightest and most abundant element in the universe.
Helium is the second most abundant element in the universe.
Carbon is essential for all known forms of life.
Nitrogen makes up about 78% of Earth's atmosphere.
Oxygen makes up about 21% of Earth's atmosphere.
Water is composed of two hydrogen atoms and one oxygen atom.
Carbon dioxide is composed of one carbon atom and two oxygen atoms.
Molecules are formed when atoms bond together.
Chemical reactions rearrange atoms to form new substances.
Acids have a pH less than 7.
Bases have a pH greater than 7.
Neutral substances have a pH of 7.
Salt is formed when an acid reacts with a base.
Oxidation is the loss of electrons in a chemical reaction.
Reduction is the gain of electrons in a chemical reaction.
Combustion is a chemical reaction that produces heat and light.
Photosynthesis converts carbon dioxide and water into glucose and oxygen.
Respiration converts glucose and oxygen into carbon dioxide and water.
Fermentation is a process that produces energy without oxygen.
Evaporation is the change from liquid to gas.
Condensation is the change from gas to liquid.
Freezing is the change from liquid to solid.
Melting is the change from solid to liquid.
Sublimation is the change from solid directly to gas.
Matter exists in three main states: solid, liquid, and gas.
Plasma is a fourth state of matter consisting of ionized gas.
Density is mass per unit volume.
Pressure is force per unit area.
Buoyancy is the upward force exerted by a fluid on an object.
Archimedes' principle explains why objects float or sink.
Pascal's principle states that pressure applied to a fluid is transmitted equally in all directions.
Bernoulli's principle relates fluid speed to pressure.
The Doppler effect causes frequency changes when a source moves relative to an observer.
Amplitude determines the loudness of sound.
Frequency determines the pitch of sound.
Wavelength is the distance between consecutive wave peaks.
Interference occurs when waves overlap.
Resonance occurs when an object vibrates at its natural frequency.
Simple machines make work easier by changing force or direction.
A lever uses a fulcrum to multiply force.
A wheel and axle reduces friction and multiplies force.
A pulley changes the direction of force.
An inclined plane reduces the force needed to lift objects.
A wedge is used to split or separate objects.
A screw is an inclined plane wrapped around a cylinder.
Work is done when a force moves an object.
Power is the rate at which work is done.
Efficiency is the ratio of useful work output to energy input.
Mechanical advantage is the factor by which a machine multiplies force.
A magnet has north and south poles.
Like magnetic poles repel each other.
Opposite magnetic poles attract each other.
Electromagnets are magnets created by electric current.
Electric current is the flow of electric charge.
Voltage is the electric potential difference between two points.
Resistance opposes the flow of electric current.
Ohm's law relates voltage, current, and resistance.
Conductors allow electric current to flow easily.
Insulators resist the flow of electric current.
Semiconductors have electrical properties between conductors and insulators.
Circuits are closed paths through which electric current flows.
Series circuits have components connected end-to-end.
Parallel circuits have components connected across common points.
Capacitors store electrical energy.
Transistors amplify or switch electronic signals.
Diodes allow current to flow in only one direction.
LEDs are light-emitting diodes.
The metric system is a decimal system of measurement.
A meter is the base unit of length in the metric system.
A kilogram is the base unit of mass in the metric system.
A liter is a unit of volume in the metric system.
A second is the base unit of time.
An hour contains 60 minutes.
A day has 24 hours.
A week has 7 days.
A year has 12 months.
A leap year has 366 days instead of 365.
January has 31 days.
February has 28 days in common years and 29 in leap years.
March has 31 days.
April has 30 days.
May has 31 days.
June has 30 days.
July has 31 days.
August has 31 days.
September has 30 days.
October has 31 days.
November has 30 days.
December has 31 days.
Spring is the season between winter and summer.
Summer is the warmest season of the year.
Autumn is the season between summer and winter.
Winter is the coldest season of the year.
The equator is an imaginary line dividing Earth into northern and southern hemispheres.
The prime meridian is an imaginary line dividing Earth into eastern and western hemispheres.
Latitude measures distance north or south of the equator.
Longitude measures distance east or west of the prime meridian.
Time zones divide the world into regions with the same standard time.
Greenwich Mean Time is the time at the prime meridian.
The International Date Line is where the date changes by one day.
Continents are large landmasses on Earth.
There are seven continents: Africa, Antarctica, Asia, Australia, Europe, North America, and South America.
Asia is the largest continent by area and population.
Australia is the smallest continent.
The Northern Hemisphere is the half of Earth north of the equator.
The Southern Hemisphere is the half of Earth south of the equator.
The tropics are the region near the equator between the Tropic of Cancer and Tropic of Capricorn.
The Arctic Circle marks the southern limit of the polar day and polar night.
The Antarctic Circle marks the northern limit of the polar day and polar night.
Deserts receive very little precipitation.
Rainforests receive abundant rainfall and have high biodiversity.
Grasslands are dominated by grasses rather than trees.
Tundra is a cold biome with frozen subsoil.
Taiga is a cold forest biome with coniferous trees.
Wetlands are areas where water covers the soil for part or all of the year.
Estuaries are where rivers meet the sea.
Mangroves are trees that grow in coastal saltwater environments.
English is a Germanic language.
Spanish is a Romance language derived from Latin.
French is a Romance language spoken in France and many other countries.
German is spoken primarily in Germany, Austria, and Switzerland.
Italian is a Romance language spoken in Italy.
Portuguese is spoken in Portugal and Brazil.
Russian uses the Cyrillic alphabet.
Arabic is written from right to left.
Chinese is a tonal language with thousands of characters.
Japanese uses three writing systems: hiragana, katakana, and kanji.
Hindi is widely spoken in India.
Korean has its own unique alphabet called Hangul.
Swahili is widely spoken in East Africa.
Turkish is spoken in Turkey and parts of Europe.
Dutch is spoken in the Netherlands and Belgium.
Swedish is spoken in Sweden and parts of Finland.
Greek has one of the longest documented histories of any language.
Hebrew is an ancient language that was revived as a modern language.
Sanskrit is an ancient language of India.
Latin is a dead language but the ancestor of Romance languages.
Esperanto is a constructed international auxiliary language.
Sign languages are visual languages used by deaf communities.
Braille is a tactile writing system for the blind.
Morse code uses dots and dashes to represent letters.
Vowels are speech sounds made without obstruction.
Consonants are speech sounds made with partial or complete obstruction.
A sentence is a grammatical unit expressing a complete thought.
A noun is a word that names a person, place, thing, or idea.
A verb is a word that expresses an action or state of being.
An adjective describes a noun.
An adverb modifies a verb, adjective, or other adverb.
A pronoun replaces a noun.
A preposition shows the relationship between a noun and another word.
A conjunction connects words, phrases, or clauses.
An interjection expresses emotion.
Subject and verb must agree in number.
The alphabet has 26 letters in English.
A synonym is a word with a similar meaning.
An antonym is a word with an opposite meaning.
A homonym is a word that sounds like another but has a different meaning.
Metaphors compare two unlike things by stating one is the other.
Similes compare two unlike things using like or as.
Alliteration is the repetition of initial consonant sounds.
Onomatopoeia is when words imitate sounds.
Hyperbole is exaggeration for effect.
Irony is when the opposite of what is expected occurs.
A haiku is a Japanese poem with three lines of 5-7-5 syllables.
A sonnet is a 14-line poem with a specific rhyme scheme.
Free verse poetry does not follow regular rhyme or meter.
Fiction is literature based on imagination rather than fact.
Nonfiction is literature based on facts and real events.
Biography tells the story of a person's life.
Autobiography is a biography written by the subject.
A novel is a long fictional prose narrative.
A short story is a brief fictional prose narrative.
Drama is literature meant to be performed.
Comedy aims to amuse and often has a happy ending.
Tragedy depicts serious events and often ends unhappily.
A protagonist is the main character in a story.
An antagonist opposes the protagonist.
Setting is where and when a story takes place.
Plot is the sequence of events in a story.
Theme is the central idea or message of a work.
Symbolism uses objects to represent abstract ideas.
Foreshadowing hints at events that will occur later.
A flashback interrupts the chronological sequence to show earlier events.
Point of view is the perspective from which a story is told.
First-person narration uses I and we.
Third-person narration uses he, she, and they.
Omniscient narration knows the thoughts of all characters.
Limited narration knows the thoughts of only one character.
Dialogue is conversation between characters.
Monologue is a long speech by one character.
A stanza is a group of lines in a poem.
Rhyme is the repetition of similar sounds at the ends of words.
Meter is the rhythmic pattern of syllables in poetry.
Imagery uses descriptive language to create mental pictures.
Personification gives human qualities to nonhuman things.
An idiom is a phrase whose meaning differs from the literal meaning.
A cliché is an overused expression.
Tone is the author's attitude toward the subject.
Mood is the emotional atmosphere of a work.
Suspense creates tension and uncertainty about what will happen.
Conflict is the struggle between opposing forces in a story.
Resolution is how the conflict is settled.
The climax is the turning point of highest intensity in a story.
The exposition introduces characters and setting.
Rising action builds toward the climax.
Falling action occurs after the climax.
The conclusion wraps up the story.
Copyright protects original works of authorship.
Plagiarism is using someone else's work without credit.
A bibliography lists sources used in research.
An essay is a short piece of writing on a specific topic.
A thesis statement presents the main argument of an essay.
An introduction presents the topic and thesis.
Body paragraphs develop the main points.
A conclusion summarizes and reinforces the thesis.
A topic sentence states the main idea of a paragraph.
Supporting details provide evidence for the topic sentence.
Transitions connect ideas between sentences and paragraphs.
A rough draft is an initial version of a piece of writing.
Revision involves making changes to improve content and organization.
Editing corrects grammar, spelling, and punctuation errors.
Proofreading is the final check before publishing.
A comma separates items in a list or clauses in a sentence.
A period ends a declarative sentence.
A question mark ends an interrogative sentence.
An exclamation point shows strong emotion.
A semicolon connects closely related independent clauses.
A colon introduces a list or explanation.
Quotation marks enclose direct speech or quotations.
An apostrophe shows possession or contraction.
A hyphen joins words or separates syllables.
A dash sets off information or shows interruption.
Parentheses enclose supplementary information.
Brackets indicate editorial changes within a quotation.
An ellipsis shows omitted words or trailing off.
Capitalization marks the beginning of sentences and proper nouns.
Proper nouns name specific people, places, or things.
Common nouns name general people, places, or things.
Abstract nouns name ideas or concepts.
Concrete nouns name things perceptible to the senses.
Collective nouns name groups.
Singular nouns refer to one person, place, or thing.
Plural nouns refer to more than one.
Possessive nouns show ownership.
Regular verbs form past tense by adding -ed.
Irregular verbs have unique past tense forms.
Action verbs express physical or mental actions.
Linking verbs connect the subject to a description.
Helping verbs work with main verbs to show tense or mood.
Present tense describes current actions or states.
Past tense describes completed actions or states.
Future tense describes actions or states that will occur.
Active voice shows the subject performing the action.
Passive voice shows the subject receiving the action.
An infinitive is the base form of a verb preceded by to.
A gerund is a verb form ending in -ing used as a noun.
A participle is a verb form used as an adjective.
Comparative adjectives compare two things.
Superlative adjectives compare three or more things.
Demonstrative pronouns point to specific things.
Personal pronouns refer to specific people or things.
Possessive pronouns show ownership.
Reflexive pronouns end in -self or -selves.
Indefinite pronouns refer to nonspecific people or things.
Relative pronouns introduce dependent clauses.
Coordinating conjunctions connect equal elements.
Subordinating conjunctions introduce dependent clauses.
An independent clause can stand alone as a sentence.
A dependent clause cannot stand alone.
A simple sentence has one independent clause.
A compound sentence has two or more independent clauses.
A complex sentence has one independent and at least one dependent clause.
A compound-complex sentence has multiple independent clauses and at least one dependent clause.
Grammar is the system and structure of a language.
Syntax is the arrangement of words to form sentences.
Semantics is the study of meaning in language.
Phonetics studies the sounds of speech.
Morphology studies word structure and formation.
Etymology studies word origins and history.
Linguistics is the scientific study of language.
Rhetoric is the art of persuasive speaking or writing.
Logic is the study of valid reasoning.
Critical thinking involves analyzing and evaluating information objectively.
Problem-solving is the process of finding solutions to difficult issues.
Creativity is the ability to generate original ideas.
Innovation introduces new methods or ideas.
Collaboration is working together toward a common goal.
Communication is the exchange of information.
Empathy is understanding and sharing the feelings of others.
Integrity is adhering to moral principles.
Responsibility is being accountable for one's actions.
Perseverance is continuing despite difficulties.
Adaptability is adjusting to new conditions.
Leadership is guiding and influencing others.
Teamwork is cooperative effort by a group.
Respect is showing consideration for others.
Honesty is telling the truth.
Kindness is being friendly and considerate.
Courage is facing fear or difficulty with bravery.
Patience is tolerating delay without frustration.
Gratitude is appreciation for what one has.
Humility is modest view of one's importance.
Wisdom is good judgment based on knowledge and experience.